That's all we
have time for today.
but we will be reviewing
this lesson next Sunday.
What for?
In the hope that you
can answer some questions
that you couldn't answer today.
Laura?
Will you take up
the collection. please?
Sure.
How much do we have?
So far. only 2 cents.
I mean all together.
1 dollar and 56 cents.
You can all be proud.
That's enough money to buy
reverend Alden
a very nice birthday present.
No. My mother
says we can
give our own presents
to reverend Alden.
Like we do every year.
Why can't you just be like the
rest of the children and join in?
My mother says we're not like
the rest of the children.
I suppose she's right.
Let's go play.
Not yet.
Mary. you're treasurer.
What are you going to
buy for reverend Alden?
I don't know.
We haven't voted yet.
I vote for a new tie.
You can't vote
because you didn't give.
And besides. reverends
don't wear ties. silly.
They can't with
a backwards collar.
Laura's right. Willie.
I vote for a brand-new
ball and bat.
Are you sure you're thinking
of reverend Alden. David?
That sounds more like
a present for you.
Well. I could help him use it.
I thought we might
get him a new Bible.
Hey. that's a good idea.
The cover's falling
off the one he has.
Moved and seconded.
All in favor?
Motion passed.
And I can't think
of a finer present.
Mary. since you've been our
treasurer for all these months.
I think you should be
the one to buy
and then present the Bible.
I'll order it right away.
When is his birthday?
5 weeks from today.
Same as my mom's.
Please. can we keep it a secret?
Of course.
We won't any of us say a
word until the big day.
- Promise!
- Yes.
Now. everybody...
Yes.
Ok!
Service is over. Sunday
school is dismissed.
Let's count it.
Ok.
Get one with color pictures.
And leather covers. That's what
wears out first... the covers.
Real leather is nice
with lots of gold on the cover.
I'll get the best one I can.
How was Sunday school?
Just fine.
What did you learn about?
We learned about the new Bible.
What new Bible?
She means the new testament.
Shouldn't that be a 9. Nels?
Yes. dear.
You said we could
get anything we wanted.
didn't you. Ma?
I said what?
Get away from the candy. Willie.
You'll spoil your dinner.
Reverend Alden's
birthday present.
You said we could get
anything we wanted.
Oh. I said within reason.
Can I have one piece. Ma?
Just one. yes.
Here's what we want. Something
no one else will think to give:
A Bible.
Oh! Uh-huh.
"Genuine hand-tooled
Moroccan leather
"with holy Bible stamped in gold
on the front
and back covers."
Oh. that sounds very nice.
"Magnificent illustrations
and genuine
steel engravings."
It was $12.00.
$12.00!
Marked down to 3.00.
Oh. well. then
that's more like it.
For 50 cents extra.
we can get his name
stamped in gold
on the front cover.
Which will make the prayers
more welcome. I'm sure.
That's not funny. Nels.
Well... can't they
for once join in
with the other children
to buy a present?
Good heavens.
We would. but they're gonna pick
some silly gift that
the reverend won't like.
Well. how do you know?
I just know.
They always do.
Get away from the candy. Willie!
You can have one
more piece. Willie.
Come along. dear.
I'll help you fill out the form.
You better get to bed
before Pa skins you alive.
We can look for a little while.
All right. but
just for a minute.
Had it marked here.
Two pages of bibles.
Hmm...
Here's one
for $1.00.
You have more than that.
The Sunday school
treasury has $1.67.
Here's one
for $1.50.
It doesn't have gold
lettering on the cover.
No. but it looks nice.
I'll send for it tomorrow.
Come on.
Let's get to bed.
Lookit!
Wouldn't reverend
Alden's eyes pop out
if he got this for a present?
"Gold lettering on
the front and the back.
Genuine hand-tooled
Moroccan leather."
How much?
"Magnificent
illustrations."
How much?
It was $12.00.
but now it's
a bargain at $3.00.
We only have $1.67.
Now. put the catalog away
and come to bed.
We can do it. Mary.
We can more than
double our money.
Come to bed.
But we can. Mary.
Says right here in the catalog.
We can make enough money
to get reverend Alden
that good Bible.
If you would just look!
Look at what?
It says right here
in the catalog
exactly how to do it.
Do what?
Make a lot of money.
What we do is
we order 12 bottles
of Dr. Briskin's homeopathic
remedies for $1.50.
Laura. that's not our money.
It's Sunday school money.
You should read what
these medicines cure.
Worm fever. face ache.
influenza. croup.
dropsy...
Hey. up there. no more talking.
You're supposed to be asleep.
Mary?
What's 12 times 25 cents?
Uh... $3.00.
There. you see? That's how
much money we'll have
when we finish
selling the medicine.
Then we could get
him the good Bible.
We can't spend the
money for anything
but reverend Alden's
birthday Bible.
and that's final.
Now go to sleep!
Did you say watermelons?
That's right. Edwards says he
hasn't had a decent watermelon
since he's been in Minnesota.
so he's gonna raise his own.
Well. if he likes them. why not?
But he's gonna raise
5 acres of them.
5 acres!
That's right.
He's gonna sell them.
Oh! Well. there aren't
enough people
in all of hero township
to eat that many watermelons.
Well. maybe some of
the folks can eat two.
I bet I could.
Well. there you go. The man
hasn't planted a seed.
and he's already a success.
Just have to take
your chances sometimes.
don't you. Pa?
That's part of being alive.
Like we did when we
came across the prairie?
Yeah. Sure. a lot of people didn't
know what they were gonna run into.
so they were afraid
to take a chance.
But you weren't afraid.
and everything worked out
all right. didn't it. Pa?
That it did.
But what if it hadn't?
Well. you just take a deep
breath and start over.
But mostly it turns out all
right. doesn't it. Pa?
Yeah. mostly. If you
have faith and you work hard.
Speaking of work.
I better get going.
- Have a nice day.
- Same to you.
"Whooping cough...
"Ague...
"Colic. and...
Dys... pepsia."
Whatever that is.
Well. Dr. Briskin's homeopathic
medicine cures it all.
All of 'em!
I don't care what they cure.
You would if you had it.
Imagine the favor we would
be doing to all those people
by letting them buy
the medicine from us.
and not to mention
reverend Alden's Bible.
Laura. it's not our money.
But we'll be doubling it.
What's wrong with that?
Laura...
Well. you know what Pa says
about taking chances.
You just have faith
and work hard.
and everything
will come out all right.
He said "mostly."
Well. there's two of us.
and that's a lot of mostly.
Give me the catalog.
What for?
I've got to fill out the order.
and I'm not sure how
to spell homeopathic.
Hooray! Wait till reverend
Alden sees his new Bible!
Nobody will find us here.
Hurry up.
Jiminy!
They sure are pretty.
There sure are a lot of them.
That's because there are
a lot of sicknesses.
Just means we'll be meeting a lot
of different kinds of customers.
I hope we find them before Pa
finds out what we're doing.
Tomorrow's Saturday.
We can get them all sold
before anybody knows it.
But what if we don't?
Don't worry.
We're having faith and taking
a chance. like Pa says.
There's a loose board
up in the hayloft.
Pa will never find the medicines
if we hide them up there.
Wrap it back up.
Take 'em on home.
Hey. morning. girls.
You're up early.
Morning Pa!
Morning. Pa!
Hey! Hold it. hold it!
Wait a minute.
It's time for breakfast.
We already ate.
What about your chores?
We finished early.
Bye. Pa!
Bye!
Got it.
Aren't they pretty?
I think we should divide
the bottles up between us.
You mean go alone?
Sure. That way. you can meet
twice as many customers.
What do we do if
they don't want to buy?
They will.
All we have to do is tell
them we have the medicine.
like it says in the catalog.
Our next order...
Our next order?
Yeah. our next order.
We probably won't even
have to leave the house.
They'll just come to us.
just like the mercantile.
And the money from our
next order will be for us.
We'll make money for Christmas.
birthdays. and everything.
Which sicknesses do you want?
Toothache and earache.
A lot of people have those.
I'll take these 3.
What are they?
I can't pronounce them.
but if the people have them.
I guess they know it.
Let's hope so.
We better get going.
if we're gonna get
finished before supper.
You're right.
I'd like to get home in time
to do a little fishing.
Oh!
Mary!
I didn't see you standing there.
Pardon me.
Oh. that's all right.
Mrs. Foster.
You didn't get me.
Thank goodness.
What can I do for you. Mary?
As a matter of fact.
I came by to tell you
that my sister and I
are selling Dr. Briskin's
homeopathic remedies now.
so people won't have to
order them anymore.
That's nice. Mary.
Thank you for telling me.
You can get them right now.
You don't have to wait anymore.
Yes. I understand.
This one's for earache.
and this one's for toothache.
We have medicine for
practically everything.
Just 25 cents.
Well. I don't have a toothache.
and I don't have an earache.
But if anything comes
up. I'll remember.
Have a nice day. Mary.
Yes. ma'am.
Dr. Briskin's
homeopathic remedies
are known all over the world.
Says right here on the label.
Yeah. then how come I never
heard of 'em. young lady?
I'm telling you now.
My sister and I are telling
everybody around
walnut grove about them.
so's they can buy
their remedies from us.
"Dyspepsia."
and "ague."
Don't reckon I need
any medicine for that.
Well. how about this one?
You better pick one fast. ma'am.
because there's a lot of people
that'll be wanting these.
and we only have 12 bottles.
I don't reckon anyone in my
family's ever had that. either.
Well. we have miracle cures
for almost every sickness.
If you'll just tell me
what you have...
Bertie!
What are you doing?
You know better than to do that.
You could make
those animals sick.
I don't think
those pills will. ma'am.
Well. you better
hope they don't.
My husband's gonna
be awful upset
if his pigs come down
with something
on account of these.
You better run along.
What about my pills?
What about 'em?
Well. the pigs ate them.
They cost 25 cents.
Well. the pigs ate 'em.
See if you can get 'em
to pay for 'em!
Oh. Laura.
Glad it's you.
I wish I was somebody else.
You're gonna be awful mad. Mary.
I didn't sell one bottle.
Me. neither.
I got rid of one.
Billy Hobson fed it
to his prize pigs.
Didn't they pay you for it?
Sure hope those pigs
don't get sick.
Mrs. Hobson
was awful mad.
Oh. Laura.
Well. it wasn't my fault.
Well. it was
your fault we bought
this medicine
instead of the Bible.
Well. you ordered them.
Well. you talked me into it.
Well. you didn't have
to listen to me.
You're older than I am.
It's not going to sound
like a very good excuse
if we can't sell them.
Not one person I talked to
even sounded like
they were interested.
We must be doing
something wrong.
We did what the catalog said.
Well. we'll just have
to tell more people
and try harder next time.
Mm-hmm.
Ho!
Hello.
Faubus is the name. young lady.
What can I do for you?
My. what lovely
children you have.
Thank you.
Remind me of my own.
Course. they don't live in
a fine place like this.
Their Ma being sick and all.
she can't fit them out
just like she'd like to.
She's not well. you know.
Oh. I'm sorry.
Well...
God willing. I'll make
a few sales this trip.
Yes. so's that I can get
her a proper doctor.
What do you sell. mister?
Oh. I'm glad you asked
that. little lady.
Indian medicine jewelry
is what I sell.
A beauty to the eye.
and a boon to the health.
all for only 25 cents.
Uh. well. they're
very nice. I'm sure.
but we really can't afford it.
Truth is. ma'am.
I understand.
Fact is.
a man who ain't seen
food in two days
knows how hard it is to
come by a silver coin.
Two days?
I left my provisions for
the young'uns. bless them.
Well. let's pray god
I get back before...
No! Wait a minute.
You cannot work without eating.
Now. we have plenty.
No. no. no. no. I
refuse to take charity.
Uh. but. if you'd consider
25 cents an adequate price
for some beans for my pail.
And. uh. maybe some water.
it's an outrageous price.
Besides. we have stew.
hot coffee. and corn bread.
It's all ready.
You are too generous. ma'am.
Hi. everybody.
Hi. Pa.
Wasn't that Mr. Faubus
I saw leaving just now?
Why. yes. You know
that poor man?
You didn't buy
anything from him?
No. As a matter
of fact.
he bought something from me.
Oh. yeah?
What he'd buy?
Supper.
He paid Ma 25 cents
for some stew.
cornbread. and coffee.
You mean he gave you
25 cents in cash?
Well. not exactly...
Let me tell you... he traded you.
A string with some
buckeyes on it?
Uh. a necklace. yes.
Don't feel bad. Edwards
gave him his shoes today.
Well. Charles. I don't think it's
funny when a poor man like that...
Caroline. he's not a poor man.
He doesn't have a family.
He just tells that story
to get people to buy things
from him or trade with him.
Well. I never...
I told you not to be upset.
You ran into
the world's best salesman.
I'll... ha ha... unhitch the team.
Make sure you get all
your homework done in school
so we can start
selling right after.
Well. you make sure you
don't break those bottles
playing in the schoolyard.
I won't. Sure hope
we brought enough.
We'll be sure to sell some
today now that we know how.
Talking about the way Mr.
Faubus does it.
I'm not sure.
Sounds like cheating to me.
It's not cheating.
Then it's lying.
Not if you're the best
salesman in the whole world.
like Pa says.
People buy better if you
tell them a sad story.
I'm not sure that's
exactly what he said.
Well. almost.
Here. Take these.
Where are you going?
Maybe I can sell some
before school. Bye.
Bye.
Here. Let me
help you with that.
Oh! Well.
I thank you. child.
Carrying heavy stuff sure must
make your body ache.
Oh!
My Pa sure is taken
with the rheumatism.
He can hardly work.
My Ma isn't much better. either.
I know what you mean.
All a body can do
just to get around
when they're down in their back.
That's fine.
I know.
Thank you. dear.
My Pa says that the onliest
thing that helps him
is Dr. Briskin's
homeopathic remedies.
Oh. my. yes!
My sister and I are
selling it to people...
Just so's we could
put food on the table.
Oh. that's a dear thing
you're doing. my child.
I wish someone cared enough
for me to do some work.
Nothing ever gets done
around here unless by me.
But Dr. Briskin's remedy can
make your work a lot easier.
and it only costs 25 cents.
Oh! A fortune.
Worth it. I'm sure.
but it would take me a year
to put that much back.
No. I'll just have to go along
with the pain in my bones.
It's my burden to carry
because no one cares for me.
Oh!
Help me to my chair. child.
You don't have anybody?
No. No one who cares
25 cents' worth.
Remember that. child.
Put something aside
for when you're old...
And alone.
Yes. ma'am.
Well...
I hope you get well soon.
Bless you.
Here.
I guess you need this
more than anybody.
Oh. you're a darling child.
You're an angel.
Oh!
Bye-bye.
Bye.
Ah ha!
Ahh.
What do you mean
you gave it to her?
Well. she was so pitiful.
If you'd have seen her.
you would have done...
All I can see is you're getting us
deeper and deeper into trouble.
Mary.
Well. you better wait a
minute to yell at me.
Did you order the surprise?
Uh. yeah.
Did it come yet?
Uh-huh. I guess you
could say it did.
You didn't tell
your parents. did you?
Oh. no. we didn't.
You better have
a good hiding place.
Yeah. Laura found a good one.
That's good.
because if anyone finds out.
it won't be a surprise.
Don't worry.
They won't.
You want to play
jump rope with us?
No. I have to wait
for Laura.
All right.
Come on.
You can come out now.
You're a fine one leaving me
out here to do all the lying.
You didn't lie.
We did everything that you
said. and it is a surprise.
Some surprise.
We're never going to sell anything.
Never.
Come on!
See ya!
Laura. wait up!
I can't.
I got an idea.
You all right. Mary?
Just resting a spell.
Oh. Well.
see you tomorrow.
Miss beadle!
Yes. Mary?
Have you been
feeling well lately?
Why. yes.
Very well. thank you.
Miss beadle.
Yes?
You haven't felt weak or maybe
tire easily or lost your appetite.
or maybe you don't
sleep very good?
No. Mary.
Really. I'm fine.
Miss beadle.
Yes. Mary?
Is your stomach weak?
Are you getting thin?
How's your circulation?
Mary. I assure you
I feel wonderful.
and I'm enjoying
the best of health.
Miss beadle.
Yes. Mary?
If you do get to feeling poorly.
will you tell me. please?
Certainly. Mary.
Thank you.
Well. hello.
ma'am. I'm a poor child.
and I need your help.
My mother died. My Pa
is real. real sick.
Why. that's terrible.
Yes. ma'am.
And my two baby sisters
are starving from hunger.
I never heard of any such thing.
It's really sad. ma'am...
And that's why I'm
doing all I can to help.
That's why I'm selling Dr.
Briskin's homeopathic remedies.
Selling? You?
Yes. ma'am.
This medicine cures
colic quick as a scat.
And this one is for
diseases of the heart.
stomach troubles.
Any sickness that you have.
I've got the cure for.
If that's true.
why is it your mother's dead
and your father's sick?
Well. you see...
Aren't you one of
the Ingalls girls?
Yes. ma'am.
I saw your mother this morning.
and she looked
in very good health.
You ought to be
ashamed of yourself.
Yes. ma'am.
And as for these so-called
remedies of yours.
I'm not interested.
Who was that?
One of
Mrs. Ingalls' girls.
Can you imagine letting
her run around like that?
And I thought she was
a good mother.
Disgraceful.
Laura.
Brought some soap.
I never saw anybody
as dirty as you are.
I tried to be like Mr. Faubus
and make people feel sorry
so they would buy the medicine.
but it didn't work.
Well...
Even if you'd sold every bottle.
we couldn't earn the Bible
and get it here on time
for reverend Alden's birthday.
What are we going to do?
Oh. I'll just die
if I have to be in church
on his birthday.
I get sick just
thinking about it.
I don't feel too good either.
Maybe we could get sick...
And stay home.
What kind of sick?
There's a lot of different
kinds on these bottles.
We could take the case
up to our room.
and between now
and his birthday.
we could pick
out a real good one.
Something awful.
Real awful.
Aren't you gonna fish?
No.
I'll put the worm
on the hook for you.
No. thanks.
How can you sit there fishing?
You know what tomorrow is.
I was trying to forget about it.
and now you've
spoiled everything.
We've gotta tell.
But we can't.
We have to. Laura.
But I thought you said
we were gonna get sick.
What good would it do?
They'll know tomorrow anyway.
Who are you gonna tell?
Pa.
You. not me. because
you're the oldest.
Why do you always bring that up?
It was your idea.
We'll both tell him. all right?
All right.
I never thought I wouldn't
feel like fishing.
Mary. Laura.
They're not here.
Well. where'd they go?
They went fishing.
Fishing? Mary?
It surprised me. too.
Well. I wanted them to
pick some berries for me.
I wanted to make a pie
for the reverend's
birthday tomorrow.
Wait a minute. now.
I'll make you a little deal.
Ha ha!
Make two pies.
and I'll pick
the berries for you.
I think I can manage
two pies quite nicely.
M that case. I'm on my way.
You gonna pick them
with your fishing pole?
The best berries are
always down by the river.
See you soon.
Hi. girls.
Catch anything?
No. sir.
I came out to pick some
berries for your Ma.
She's baking a pie for the
reverend Alden's birthday.
Thought I'd get
a little fishing in.
Pass me those worms. will you?
See if we can't catch
something here.
Pa.
Mm-hmm?
You know. tomorrow's
the reverend's birthday. and...
Well. Laura and I... we. uh...
Laura and you what?
We thought lt'd be nice if we
picked the berries for the pie.
I think that would be very nice.
Aren't you gonna
fish for a while?
You know what you
always say. Pa...
Never put off till tomorrow.
Don't be late.
We won't.
Thought you were
going to tell him.
I decided to wait.
For what?
A miracle.
The girls still aren't down?
No.
Girls!
Mary! Laura!
Hey. what's going on?
You're not even dressed yet.
We're too sick
to go to church. Pa.
Sick?
The both of you?
Mary?
Let me feel your heads.
Don't seem to have any fever.
Open your mouth wide.
Ah. Wider.
Ah.
They look all right to me.
I'm awful sick. Pa.
Me. too.
We just can't go to church. Pa.
We have larungeetis.
You have what?
Larangutus.
Larangutus?
How long you think this
"la ran gut us" is gonna last?
We need a few more hours
to get over it. Pa.
Well. maybe by the time
Ma and Carrie and I
get back from church.
you'll be feeling better then.
I'm sure we will. Pa.
We just have to get
our strength back.
Yeah.
First of all.
it's pronounced "laryngitis."
and it means you can't talk.
Now. what's this all about?
Why don't you want
to go to church?
Come on. You certainly
can talk. so tell me.
Please. Pa. We couldn't
face reverend Alden.
Well. what's the reverend
Alden got to do with it?
Well. you see. today
being his birthday.
we were going to surprise him.
Nobody wanted the medicine.
What medicine?
The medicine we bought
in the catalog.
We tried to sell it
to make extra money
so we could get him
a grand Bible.
Well. where did you get the
money to buy the medicine?
Come on.
It's the Sunday-school fund.
It was my fault. Pa.
I saw it first.
But I was in charge
of the money.
and I wrote the letter.
We just wanted
to get reverend Alden
the best Bible that we could.
Please. Pa. We didn't
mean to do it.
Don't be mad at Mary.
Please. Pa.
I think you two
better get dressed.
I don't want you
to be late for church.
But. Pa..
There's no buts about it.
Now. you made a mistake.
and you're gonna own up to it.
I'll be waiting
for you downstairs.
And this won't be easy for you.
but you can't hide
what you did forever.
Go on. get ready.
Morning. reverend.
Well. good morning.
You're a bit early. Services
aren't for 30 minutes.
No. no. I know that. Mary
and Laura had something
they wanted to
talk to you about.
Well. you came at
a good time. girls.
Why don't you come up
and sit down?
Aren't you coming?
No. this is something
you have to do by yourselves.
I'll be outside with your mom.
Go on.
Oh. my.
Such long faces.
I feel kind of sorry for them.
They really look scared.
This is what you bought with the
Sunday-school treasury money?
Yes. sir.
The money was in your care.
You were instructed
to buy a Bible.
I talked her into trying to
get a better one. that's why.
It was my fault.
It was not. Mary.
I suspect you both
had a part in it.
The question is. have you learned
anything from this mistake?
Yes. sir.
You're sure?
We won't do it again. reverend.
Never.
That's the truth.
Not ever.
I'd like you
to leave this with me.
Would you like to
join your parents now?
Yes. sir. Thank you.
Harriet!
Yes?
Would you hurry up?
We're going to be
late for church!
Oh. for heaven's sakes.
would you stop bellowing?
I'm coming.
Children!
Come on. Come on. Hurry up. now.
Let's go.
Not yet. We haven't wrapped
reverend Alden's Bible.
Why not?
We wanted to show it to you.
Yes. See?
His name in gold.
I know it'll be his best present
because it's the most expensive.
Yes. well. I'm sure the lord
will take that
into consideration
when he listens to prayers.
Oh. Nels.
Welcome.
Good morning.
The sermon for today
is on the gift of love.
Now. there once was a man that
wanted to show his love for a friend
by gmng him a gift.
And this man was rich in love.
but he was poor in worldly goods
and when he went home
and counted his money.
he found that he
couldn't purchase the gift
that he thought
to give his friend.
and he was sad.
And his sadness was felt
by all who knew him.
But then he decided he'd
plant a crop for his friend.
but that. too. failed.
The man was heartbroken.
But when the friend heard of
what he had endured for him.
he was overcome.
He embraced the man and he wept.
For it was not
the gift that counted.
It was the love that was
in the man's heart.
This old Bible was used
by my father.
He gave it to me
when I was a boy.
Over the years.
I've acquired many bibles.
Newer bibles. fancier bibles.
When you're a minister.
everyone gives you a Bible.
But this particular Bible
is very precious to me.
The cover's worn.
the pages are yellowed...
But that doesn't subtract from the
inspiration that's within it.
This old Bible's like love.
The older it gets.
the better it becomes
because it's so precious to me.
Today's my birthday.
and I have received
a very special gift from
our Sunday school children...
This case.
Now. how did they know that
I'd always wanted a case
to carry my favorite Bible
and keep it safe?
This one's exactly right.
I'll always Cherish it
because it comes from
children I Cherish
and will now contain
a gift from my father.
And to all of you...
Love each other.
Care about each other.
Forgive each other's mistakes.
and we'll all
be bound closer together.
For. like this case
and this old Bible.
it's the gift of love
that's the greatest gift of all.
Now. would you all join me
by turning to page 196
in your hymn books
while we stand and sing
"Jesus and his love"?
♪ You have often heard
the story ♪
♪ of Jesus and his love ♪
♪ he left his home
in heaven high ♪
♪ yon shining cords above ♪
♪ Jesus came to save
poor sinners ♪
♪ to set the prisoners free ♪
♪ he still gives on life's
precious love ♪
♪ he's a friend to you and me ♪